All right let's get writing some code.
So as I mentioned earlier these bottom three methods get post and get Jason are just shortcut methods
or shorthand methods that call upon dollar sign Ajax in their source code so we can do everything we
need to as far as making requests go using only AJAX but these are convenient shortcuts.
So we'll take a look at those after we learn the basics of Ajax.
So let's take a look at the syntax.
Here is how you could make a simple GET request using dollar sign Ajax.
So we have to sign that age act and then we pass in an object containing information about the request
we want to be made.
So method get you Arrau some API dot com in this case and that's all we need to actually create the
request.
The H.R. that's underlying it and send it then are done code will run when this request comes back and
it's successful.
And any code and fail will run when there's a problem.
So we'll talk about that and how it differs from fetch and how we don't have to check for status code
anymore.
But before we go any further I just want to show you the docs.
So Jay queery has very good documentation.
If you just go to J-curve home page and then you make sure you click on API documentation.
Ajax is actually the top left.
So very easy to find and then all we want is the Ajax method right here.
So it's kind of overwhelming at first when you look at this page for two reasons.
One there are a lot of options and a lot of ways you can use this Ajax function Ajax method and to it's
changed over time.
So as you go further down you'll see as of J.
One point five something happened as of 1.5 1.
Something else happened and I think there's a couple more yeah.
Here we go one point five.
So essentially you know the docs are a little bit cluttered but they're really helpful.
What I like to do is go to the bottom.
They always have good examples of usage.
So at the very bottom here's an example of making a post request.
So as you can see it's the same syntax dollar and at Ajax may make this a bit bigger.
But we also instead of just specifying methodis get we can specify method is post give it a role and
also provide data that we want to be sent the same done.
We're doing some code in this case just alerting the data that comes back.
So next let's try writing some of these and then I'm going to wrap this up by actually proving to you
in the source code where you can find the base exit chars that are being generated.
But let's start off by copying over to Code Pink.
And the first thing I'm going to do aside from already requiring J query is I'm going to now select
the button very simply using j query and then just add it quick.
So when I click on the code something happens and what we want to happen is we're going to send a request
to a new API we haven't seen called Bacon ipsum dot com.
Basically if you're familiar with Lorem Ipsum just placeholder text but this has all to do with meat
and bacon.
I apologize if you're vegetarian but it's just a simple API we can use.
So I'm going to copy the euro as you can see we get an array of one to believe five items by default
five different paragraphs.
So we're going to take this and send a request to it.
So the first thing to do is dollar sign dot Ajax and then we pass an object and that object we specify
a method which by default is get.
But I'd like to be explicit and then you are well and this is are you are all right there and that's
it.
So right now you know nothing is going to happen visibly at least.
But a request should be sent if I clear this so we're not getting any issues.
No for a fourth.
So we have to assume it's working.
But if we wanted to run some code after the fact when the request is done we add in are done.
So let's just cancel that log.
Our data so let's see what happens.
Click the button and would you like that we get our data back.
So if you looked closely you might notice that our data was already parsed.
It's not a string like it was with ex-aide char and with fetch We don't actually have to parse it.
In this case as you can see it's already an array and our consul treats it that way.
So why is that happening.
Well if we look in their docs to go find it.
Probably fast forward through this.
Here we go.
So one of the things we can pass in along with method and you well is called data type so we can set
it to be Jasen correct XML or HDMI or whatever we want but if we leave it blank it actually says that
if none is specified.
Jay queery we'll try to infer it based on the type of the response.
Basically what it calls an intelligent guess.
So in our case it intelligently guessed that we were working with Jaison they figured out that this
response with Jaison.
And so then it automatically parsed it for us.
So we don't have to parse it.
So remember again what we used to have to do with the next H.R. which you adjacent up parse or with
fetch We had to do our data Jaison then.
So there's other code that we would have to write but in our case it intelligently guesses but it's
better to be explicit so we can add in data type Jaison.
Nothing should change.
But now it's not intelligently guessing.
Now it knows how to parse it here we go.
Same exact outcome.
So now let's talk about fail.
If the request doesn't work so let's add art fail here and we'll just start with an alert.
Oh no.
Failed.
And let's see what triggered this.
So I'll turn my internet off.
All right.
Turn it off now Fred try and send that.
OK.
We get.
Oh no.
Failed.
Which is exactly what happens with fecche.
But remember fetch also had a problem where if we sent a request that came back with a bad status code
let's say for a four that didn't trigger that catch.
And we had to manually check if the status was OK or if the response was OK.
Well with Jay query that's not the case.
All right.
So that's the basics.
We have done we have dot fail.
The last thing I should mention is how when you use Jay queery and you're making these AJAX calls with
these nice little shortcuts.
The second part of the process of appending the data to the page manipulating the DOM is also much easier.
So I could do something really simple let me add a paragraph to our page just leave it empty for now.
And if I want to target that paragraph this is kind of bad.
Jay query because this would target all paragraphs but you only have one for now.
I can do dot text and just set it to be data.
Let's just do the first paragraph because remember we get an array back so you can do that.
Click the button.
Now we get a random baken ipsum paragraph.
Every time we click the button.
And just like before you know we can also extract this to a named function if you want wanted to
let's call it pad P..
And then here I can just call add P.
Same thing still works OK.
So that's the basics.
You know you can change methods you can make it a post request you can change the data type you are
well obviously and there's a bunch of other things we can alter if you're going to take a look at the
documentation.
And next if you're curious we did take a dive into the source code and prove to you that this just results
in an underlying SH request and where we can see that.